✨ planning around objects (#367)
ros-planning/moveit2_tutorials: doc/tutorials/planning_around_objects/planning_around_objects.rst

Planning Around Objects
=======================

This tutorial will introduce you to inserting objects into the planning scene and planning around them.

Prerequisites
-------------

If you haven't already done so, make sure you've completed the steps in :doc:`Visualizing in RViz </doc/tutorials/visualizing_in_rviz/visualizing_in_rviz>`.
This project assumes you are starting with the ``hello_moveit`` project, where the previous tutorial left off.

Steps
-----

1 Add include for Planning Scene Interface
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> At the top of your source file add this to the list of includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the top of your source file, add this to the list of includes:
```

.. code-block:: C++

  #include <moveit/planning_scene_interface/planning_scene_interface.h>

2 Change the Target Pose
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> First update the target pose with this one change to make the robot plan to a different location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, update the target pose with the following change to make the robot plan to a different location:
```

.. code-block:: C++

    // Set a target Pose
    auto const target_pose = [] {
      geometry_msgs::msg::Pose msg;
      msg.orientation.w = 1.0;
      msg.position.x = 0.28;
      msg.position.y = 0.4;  // <---- This value was changed
      msg.position.z = 0.5;
      return msg;
    }();
    move_group_interface.setPoseTarget(target_pose);

3 Create a Collision Object
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> In the next block of code we create a collision object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the next block of code, we create a collision object.
```

> The first thing to notice is that it is being place in the frame of the robot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first thing to notice is that it is being placed in the frame of the robot.
```

> If we had a preception system that reported the location of objects in our scene that we wanted to plan around this is the sort of message it would build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we had a perception system that reported the location of obstacles in our scene, then this is the sort of message it would build.
```

> As this is just an example we are creating it manually.

Reviewer: This one is so nit picky and I'm sorry 😆 https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/grammar/british-grammar/as-because-or-since
```suggestion
Because this is just an example, we are creating it manually.
```

> One thing to notice at the end of this block of code is that we set the operation on this message to ADD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One thing to notice at the end of this block of code is that we set the operation on this message to ``ADD``.
```

> This is so it gets added to the collision scene.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This results in the object getting added to the collision scene.
```
or
```suggestion
This will allow the object to be added to the collision scene.
```

> Place this code right after the block you just updated to set the target pose and before planning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Place this code block between setting the target pose from the previous step and creating a plan.
```

    // Create collision object for the robot to avoid
    auto const collision_object = [frame_id =
                                     move_group_interface.getPlanningFrame()] {
      moveit_msgs::msg::CollisionObject collision_object;
      collision_object.header.frame_id = frame_id;
      collision_object.id = "box1";
      shape_msgs::msg::SolidPrimitive primitive;

      // Define the size of the box in meters
      primitive.type = primitive.BOX;
      primitive.dimensions.resize(3);
      primitive.dimensions[primitive.BOX_X] = 0.5;
      primitive.dimensions[primitive.BOX_Y] = 0.1;
      primitive.dimensions[primitive.BOX_Z] = 0.5;

      // Define the pose of the box (relative to the frame_id)
      geometry_msgs::msg::Pose box_pose;
      box_pose.orientation.w = 1.0;
      box_pose.position.x = 0.2;
      box_pose.position.y = 0.2;
      box_pose.position.z = 0.25;

      collision_object.primitives.push_back(primitive);
      collision_object.primitive_poses.push_back(box_pose);
      collision_object.operation = collision_object.ADD;

      return collision_object;
    }();

4 Add the Object to the Planning Scene
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Finally we need to add this object to the collision scene.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we need to add this object to the collision scene.
```

> To do this we use an object called the ``PlanningSceneInterface`` that uses ROS interfaces to communicate changes to the planning scene to ``MoveGroup``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this, we use an object called the ``PlanningSceneInterface`` that uses ROS interfaces to communicate changes to the planning scene to ``MoveGroup``.
```

> This code should go right after the lambda that we wrote to create the collision object and before the planning step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code block should directly follow the code block that creates the collision object.
```

Just as we did in the last tutorial, start RViz using the ``demo.launch.py`` script and run our program.

.. image:: planning_around_object.png

Summary
-------

- You extended the program you wrote with MoveIt to plan around an object in the scene.
- :codedir:`Here is a copy of the full hello_moveit.cpp source<tutorials/planning_around_objects/hello_moveit.cpp>`.

Further Reading
---------------

- :doc:`Examples of using the Planning Scene for collision and constraint checking </doc/examples/planning_scene/planning_scene_tutorial>`.
- :doc:`Examples of using the Planning Scene ROS API </doc/examples/planning_scene_ros_api/planning_scene_ros_api_tutorial>`.
- :doc:`Example of visualizing collision objects </doc/examples/visualizing_collisions/visualizing_collisions_tutorial>`.
- :doc:`Example of subframes used for planning with objects </doc/examples/subframes/subframes_tutorial>`.

Next Step
---------

In the next tutorial :doc:`Pick and Place with MoveIt Task Constructor </doc/tutorials/pick_and_place_with_moveit_task_constructor/pick_and_place_with_moveit_task_constructor>`, you will be introduced to a higher layer tool designed to solve harder motion plans.

> In this next tutorial you will create a program to pick and place an object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this next tutorial, you will create a program to pick and place an object.
```
